Named Data Networking (NDN) Content Store (CS) Evaluation Via Discrete Event Simulation

This project runs a simulation of a network a set number of times and logs/creates graphs of data measuring the efficiency of a Named Data Network. The three main metrics used are cache-hit ratio, hit distance, and return time. Cache-hit ratio measures the amount of times a node has the data requested stored in its CS, versus the total number of times an interest passes through the node. Hit distance measures number of nodes an interest travels through before finding the data requested. Return time measures the difference between when data is returned to a user and when the respective interest was created. A higher cache-hit ratio, a lower hit distance, and a lower return time means that the network is working more efficiently.
In this simulation, a navy-oriented scenario with Unmanned Surface Vehicles (USVs) and Unmanned Underwater Vehicles (UUVs) is modeled. The data stored in the USVs and UUVs is categorized by mission information and health information, and these two types of data expire at different times (set as constants in the program). They are currently configured in a butterfly structure. The network configuration can be changed using the network file, and when changing the network configuration the content of the Forwarding Interest Bases (FIBs) must be changed in the simulation.
As the main goal of this simulation is to evaluate Content Store (CS) management policies. The most important variable is the constant PROB, set at the top of the simulation file. This defines the probability the the CS will cache data when it travels through the node. The CS also manages cached data by prioritizing certain data when it becomes too large. It will remove the data that is the least popular and the closest to expiring.